got a top here to address that his
philosophical but brief I had a message
that i believe was from a patreon
supporter asking me basically about in
principle all everything we have to say
about animal rights and ideal or optimal
treatment of animals put it that way
everything we have to say about the
optimal treatment of animals is based on
human beings looking at animals and then
human beings imposing on to those
animals human expectations human values
human feelings right that in some sense
fundamentally when we look at how
animals live and how we best could treat
them uh we're thinking about how we
would feel if we were in those
circumstances Utah test mutandis so with
necessary changes obviously if you look
at a dolphin that's in a tiny swimming
pool it you can't say well if I were
that so i would i feel if you're looking
at whales and dolphins are treated it's
one thing when we're looking at a monkey
living its whole life in a cage it seems
pretty easy for us to make the leap of
inference that that monkey would be
happier if it weren't alone if it were
with a group of monkeys if it had a
bigger cage if it had trees that could
climb on within its cage etc etc but all
of this line of reasoning doesn't it
rely on the human observer imposing
human values on to the monkey onto the
animal in question whether it's a mammal
or insect or otherwise so this person
writes to me I probably have to skip
some parts this letters a long letter
izel I've been a long aware of people
who would argue that pet ownership was
morally wrong but I regarded this
position as ridiculous and never
bothered seeking it more information if
this accomplishes nothing else thank you
for your videos on the topic I'm not
sure where I stand but I now realize
it's ethically important and I realized
the need to be more open mind in the
future I'm having difficulty with
reaching a conclusion as it seems
impossible to consider the issue without
anthropomorphizing the pet I'm so glad I
managed to pronounce the word
anthropomorphize egg without its
stumbling on it oh this is in the class
of words you don't have a lot of
practice saying out loud
the mainstream opinion a la unnatural
vegan is given that the animals needs
are met owning a pet is morally good or
at least morally neutral I too found
this convincing for a long time because
if I were going to be transformed into a
dog I would much rather have somebody
filling my bowl than being obligated to
forage for food you on the other stand
if I understand you correctly sorry you
on the other hand if I understand you
correctly believe that giving the dog
the opportunity to fully realize the
exercise of its instincts its body and
mind involves letting it fend for itself
among other dogs in the wild and to add
inayat this opportunity is immoral
perhaps this is the truth but it doesn't
seem to escape putting human
characteristics on to dogs although
you're imposing another personality type
yours you so often speak of living a
meaningful life and whether you're a dog
or a human that seems impossible if
someone else is making choices for you
given that we can't communicate with
animals to determine what their thoughts
are on these matters how are we supposed
to know the right thing to do how do we
know animals preferences or rights
without projecting our preferences on to
them don't you feel that your own
personality never my personality
influences your beliefs on this issue
okay says an interesting and
philosophical question from Max it's
interesting and it's philosophical I
also think it's irrelevant it's
irrelevant in two ways the first of
which I'll say really briefly because I
think everyone watching this is already
vegan the first sense in which it's
irrelevant you guys already know we
don't need to get into this level of
sympathetic and speculative
understanding of an animal's perspective
of the world to come to the conclusion
that a cow does not want to live its
whole life in a tiny metal and concrete
cage to produce milk for human beings to
then be slaughtered and cut up and
consumers meat so that's one sense and
that's not you know obviously I'm not
using this to stub him but in terms of
veganism as a social movement you know
our opposition to the dairy industry
doesn't get into these these fine points
the distinction the second sense in
which it's a relevant I think is that
he's making the error of continuing to
think of animals as pets as ineluctably
as intrinsically inevitably as playing
the role of being the you know court
jester for human beings as existing for
our entertainment and so on when you
start with this paradigm even though
he's examining it even though he's
questioning here you're thinking of pets
in the role of your houseguest you're
thinking what should I do to make my
guests comfortable right which is
natural I completely understand why you
think of animals that way given that for
many people in the modern world living
in a city the main role you see animals
in is as our houseguest is as ain't you
know living in your house but not
cooking for themselves not paying the
rent not contributing you know in terms
of production which they did of course
in medieval and you know pre-modern
societies so you see yourself as the
role of the good host and you're
questioning only the morality of how a
good host should treat his or her house
guest my perspective instead is to look
at the wilderness as a foreign country
it isn't truly but to look at the willna
wilderness as almost a foreign country
as something that has its own borders
sin that has its own integrity Sun that
exists separately from you know our own
sense of hospitality of making people
comfortable a view I'm not concerned
with the animals comfort I'm not
concerned with the animals desires I'm
not concerned with the animals happiness
I'm not concerned with what that animal
would choose so I mean one of the most
absurd examples but I should debated
this with non vegan and I've seen a
couple other vegans on YouTube talking
about this I do not think it's the role
of human beings to interfere when one
bear and the forest tries to eat another
bear bears do engage in aggressive
cannibalism bears kill and eat other
bears and it's beautiful brutal and
horrifying and even if you watched a lot
of nature documentaries you may have
never seen that it's just a site of how
bears really live that humans don't want
to generally look at or face up to so
you know if you actually believe the
bears are part of our society and you
see one bear trying to eat another do
you call the police you know if you see
bears as your pets as your house gets if
you have two bears in a zoo
it's immoral to put two bears together
have them fight to the death and eat
each other for human entertainment to
have a gladiators ring for bear sure but
I'm not talking about the zoo I'm not
talking about you know that the dog that
lives as your houseguest I'm talking
about the integrity of those bears
living on their own terms killing on
their own terms and dying on their own
terms in the wilderness and thus the
wilderness the sling that stands apart
from the morality of the good host as
instead something where our role is to
maintain that border the first and
foremost human beings have to stop other
human beings from cutting down the trees
with the stop other human beings from
hunting the Bears we have to maintain
that preserve and then as I've said a
million times I don't believe in nature
red in tooth and Fang I do believe that
ultimately we are talking about wildlife
management that ultimately they're human
beings who are concerned with is the
population appears too high or too low
or what have you so within that um you
know in a sense you're right you could
say am I just someone who values
independence imagine someone who values
dignity everything dignity is really the
crew crucial cannot even independence
what I value is dignity and my concept
of dignity is probably not the same as
your constituting I think there can be
dignity in a wild animal starving to
death instead of you know being
castrated domesticated broken and eating
every meal out of the palm of a human
hand I think there's dignity in a dog or
a wild boar living in the forest on its
own terms and that we are depriving the
animal of that dignity when we reduce it
to being a decoration on our carpet
you've heard me say these things before
so yes my concept of dignity is
ultimately a human created concept it's
sung that reflects my character and it's
true i'm projecting it but i would say
that i'm projecting it mostly in how i
construe this argument in trying to
convince you that's the main function of
my psychology here is in how I'm
expressing myself when talking other
vegans it is not really part of how I
look at animals feel about animals
understand how I would treat a
domesticated dog in my own house if I
was in that situation or what have you
um so me you're right it's an
interesting point I also think the point
is
very limited validity for the two
reasons I've already stated this kind of
wanting to look into the mind of an
animal and understand from that animals
perspective what it would enjoy that's
only relevant if you're starting from
assuming the role of human beings as
being the being the good host taking
care of a house guess what would my
guests prefer and it's not relevant when
you realize our role is not to know that
I don't want to hook up dogs to an MRI
scanner and figure out what makes them
happier and I've literally had vegan
suggests to me that that's going to be
the future for veganism is understanding
animal desires that we know the point
she is exactly to recognize you know not
to impose my human nature on to them but
to recognize the dog and dog nature Pig
and pig nature bear and bear nature are
things we preserve things we should
value things we should care about but
the main way we have to value them is
exactly by allowing those animals to
seek out their own livelihood in the
wild and they may find it and they may
fail to find it they may starve to death
and of course they wouldn't prefer to
starve to death but we're making a
judgment based on the integrity of the
wilderness itself not based in the
happiness of any particular bear and as
soon as you cross the line go the other
way which I think we do I think we will
do inevitably I think you'll find in the
wilderness a bear that has one broken
leg and you have to make the decision do
we leave this bear to now die in the
wild or do we amputate the leg take it
to a zoo or take it to a circus and give
it a second life where it's just a
plaything for human beings take you to
the circus castrate it cut off its leg
give it a million dollars with a
veterinary care and then what you're
going to try to make that money back I
guess but a spectacle out of this
three-legged bear I understand and
sometimes people are sincerely
compassionate when they see that they
say this is a bear that could live
another ten years or something if we
intervene I completely understand that I
think there are vegans who have big
hearts and they want to do exactly that
there are vegans who would get up out of
their seat right now they're so moved by
thinking about a three-legged bear and
they would want to adopt that bear or
keep it in its bat in their backyard or
what have you but it's trouble
and bears are not vegan if you take that
bear into your care now you're into
killing cows to feed your bear now
you're into speciesism and now you're
actually into what I see as a terrible
downward spiral of domestication of
animals because as soon as you deprive
that bear of its dignity as soon as you
deprive that bear of the possibility of
living on its own terms and of dying on
its own terms you're taking it into
human society you're making it into a
play thing instead of letting it live
and die as as an animal